
<!---
This is an autogenerated file!

Please do not edit this file directly, but instead make changes to the
sigs.yaml file in the project root.

To understand how this file is generated, see github.com/kubevirt/community/tree/main/generator/cmd/sigs/README.md
--->

Most community activity is organized into Special Interest Groups (SIGs),
Working Groups, and the community meeting.

SIGs follow these [guidelines](GOVERNANCE.md) although each of these groups may operate a little differently
depending on their needs and workflow.

Each group's material is in its subdirectory in this project.


### User Groups

| Name | Label [1] | Chairs [2] | Contact | Meetings |
|------|-----------|------------|---------|----------|
|[KubeVirt Community](kubevirt-community/charter.md) | | <ol></ol> |[Slack](virtualization)<br/> [Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubevirt-dev) |<ul><li>Regular KubeVirt Community Meeting: [ Wednesday at 15:00 UTC (weekly) ](https://zoom.us/j/92221936273)</li></ul> |




### Special Interest Groups

| Name | Label [1] | Chairs [2] | Contact | Meetings |
|------|-----------|------------|---------|----------|
|[sig-compute](sig-compute/charter.md) |[sig/compute](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/labels/sig/compute) | <ol><li>[Itamar Holder](https://github.com/iholder101), Red Hat</li><li>[Jed Lejosne](https://github.com/jean-edouard), Red Hat</li></ol> |[Slack](kubevirt-dev)<br/> [Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubevirt-dev) |<ul></ul> |
|[documentation](sig-documentation/charter.md) |[sig/documentation](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/labels/sig/documentation) |  | |<ul></ul> |
|[storage](sig-storage/charter.md) |[sig/storage](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/labels/sig/storage) | <ol><li>[Alice Frosi](https://github.com/alicefr), Red Hat</li><li>[Michael Henriksen](https://github.com/mhenriks), Red Hat</li></ol> | |<ul><li>KubeVirt Storage SIG Meeting: [ Monday at 1:00 PM UTC (bimonthly) ](https://zoom.us/j/97050528531)</li></ul> |
|[testing](sig-testing/charter.md) |[sig/testing](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/labels/sig/testing) |  | |<ul></ul> |
|[network](sig-network/charter.md) |[sig/network](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/labels/sig/network) | <ol><li>[Edward Haas](https://github.com/eddev), Red Hat</li><li>[Miguel Duarte Barroso](https://github.com/maiqueb), Red Hat</li></ol> | |<ul></ul> |
|[KubeVirt Perf and Scale SIG](sig-scale/charter.md) |[sig/scale](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/labels/sig/scale) | <ol><li>[Ryan Hallisey](https://github.com/rthallisey), Nvidia</li><li>[Alay Patel](https://github.com/alaypatel07), Nvidia</li></ol> |[Slack](kubevirt-dev)<br/> [Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubevirt-dev) |<ul><li>KubeVirt Perf and Scale SIG Meeting: [ Thursday at 14:00 UTC (bimonthy) ](https://zoom.us/j/3205945033)</li></ul> |
|[observability](sig-observability/charter.md) |[sig/observability](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/labels/sig/observability) | <ol><li>[Shirly Radco](https://github.com/sradco), Red Hat</li><li>[João Vilaça](https://github.com/machadovilaca), Red Hat</li></ol> |[Slack](kubevirt-dev)<br/> [Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubevirt-dev) |<ul><li>KubeVirt Observability SIG Meeting: [ Tuesday at 12:30 UTC (weekly) ](https://zoom.us/j/98887071488)</li></ul> |
|[KubeVirt Buildsystem SIG](sig-buildsystem/charter.md) |[sig/buildsystem](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/labels/sig/buildsystem) | <ol><li>[Daniel Hiller](https://github.com/dhiller), Red Hat</li><li>[Brian Carey](https://github.com/brianmcarey), Red Hat</li><li>[Luboslav Pivarc](https://github.com/xpivarc), Red Hat</li></ol> | |<ul></ul> |
|[KubeVirt CI Operations Group](sig-ci/charter.md) |[sig/ci](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/labels/sig/ci) | <ol><li>[Brian Carey](https://github.com/brianmcarey), Red Hat</li><li>[Daniel Hiller](https://github.com/dhiller), Red Hat</li></ol> |[Slack](kubevirt-dev)<br/> [Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubevirt-dev) |<ul><li>KubeVirt CI Taskforce Sync meeting: [ Monday at 09:00 CET (weekly) ](https://zoom.us/j/96583958896)</li><li>KubeVirt tests quarantine catch-up: [ Wednesday at 08:45 CET (weekly) ](https://zoom.us/j/94552009485)</li></ul> |




### Working Groups

| Name | Label [1] | Chairs [2] | Contact | Meetings |
|------|-----------|------------|---------|----------|
|[S390x architecture working group](wg-arch-s390x/charter.md) |[wg-arch-s390x](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/labels/wg-arch-s390x) | <ol><li>[Jan Schintag](https://github.com/jschintag), IBM</li><li>[Cheryl Fillekes](https://github.com/cfilleke), IBM</li><li>[vamsikrishna-siddu](https://github.com/vamsikrishna-siddu), IBM</li></ol> | |<ul></ul> |
|[ARM architecture working group](wg-arch-arm/charter.md) |[wg-arch-arm](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/labels/wg-arch-arm) | <ol><li>[Howard Zhang](https://github.com/zhlhahaha), ARM</li></ol> | |<ul></ul> |
|[Code-Quality Working Group](wg-code-quality/charter.md) |[wg/code-quality](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/labels/wg/code-quality) | <ol><li>[Edward Haas](https://github.com/EdDev), Red Hat</li><li>[Itamar Holder](https://github.com/iholder101), Red Hat</li></ol> |[Slack](kubevirt-dev)<br/> [Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubevirt-dev) |<ul><li>KubeVirt Code-Quality Working Group meeting: [ Thu at 09:00 UTC (biweekly) ](https://zoom.us/j/93168599900)</li></ul> |





[1]: https://github.com/kubevirt/project-infra/blob/main/docs/labels.md
[2]: https://github.com/kubevirt/community/blob/main/membership_policy.md
